yumna say joins us on the phone from
inside Gaza yumna the latest line that's
just dropping as we go to air is
electricity has now been cut can you
confirm
that yes Sammy exactly an hour ago at 2
pm local time it was the last warning
that electricity is going to be
completely cut off the Gaza Strip
because of running of the last amount of
fuel and now they have stated that it is
completely completely cut off in all
areas what does that mean for for life
in Gaza right
now well without electricity it means
that there's no water it means that
complete darkness through the night it
means that hospitals are going to be
only operating with their emergency
generators which can only last from two
to 4 days maximum it means
that most of the light in Gaza depending
on electricity has shut
down and I mean just thinking through
this basic things if you're in as many
residents live in multistory rise
apartments you want to switch on the
water tap it's going to be hard to get
water if your P electric pumps are not
working if you want to switch an oven on
assuming you have something to cook all
of that goes out the window now
right that has already been out of the
window about three days ago already
since we're only we were only uh
witnessing uh uh 4 hours of electricity
and then two hours of electricity no
elevators working in any of the towers
or buildings people only use the chairs
um uh no water is being generated people
are uh uh filling uh uh tanks and
whatever they can fill uh to take to
their homes we're going back to
centuries before uh any kind of uh any
kind of uh you know sophisticated
technology let's say we're going back
centuries filling uh water water in in
in in buckets and taking them to our
homes so that we can have some water in
our homes this is exactly how it is but
now
uh it's even going it's even being worse
because even when we had an hour or
something of electricity where we could
charge our phones where we could uh
watch TV uh check the news out where we
could generate water for a little bit it
a store home all that is being disrupted
now the scenes that you're describing it
sounds like when you read about medieval
sieges I mean to what extent do people
have access to their
own electrical generators and if they do
do they have fuel to run them backup
generators and so
on now it's not generators or backup
generators that are working these have
been used uh extensively the past few
days when we only had four hours of
electricity these generators working in
the streets and backup generators were
the ones that were uh providing another
two to to to four hours in in in best
times or in in different locations of
electricity but now those people who
only have solar panels in Gaza are the
ones who will be able to have some
electricity in their home but again
solar panels does not mean that you will
have your elevator working it does not
mean that you will have water generated
it it would not mean anything of these
facilities working it means that at
least at least do you have uh uh some
electricity at home for uh uh bulb
lights you have uh some some Chargers
that can operate on electricity uh at at
at best time if your solar panels are uh
a little bit strong you can have your TV
operating so Y is Gaza on the verge of a
humanitarian catastrophe given what
you're
describing Gaza is literally on the
verge of collapse it's we're already
we've already been suffering
humanitarian catastrophe the past few
days since the launching of this war
with the extensive uh bombardment of
human homes of residential homes and uh
the amount of people uh being displaced
the amount of people under the rubble
not having anyone to help them out uh
the the the Health Service uh completely
in in full crisis uh the the shortage in
supply of food and water inside the
strip this is this is exactly how life
is in Gaza life in Gaza is slowly death
by death ending it's like you're pulling
oxygen out of something scy
exactly yum know we do hope you'll stay
safe thank you for your reporting for us
in these very difficult conditions